Compassion
==========

Initiation?
-----------
**Atma Tattva:** I was cleaning the temple room in Delhi, and a sixty-year-old gentleman came in and paid his obeisances to the Deities. We started talking, and he found out that I was initiated by Prabhupada. He said, "I want to become a disciple of Swami Prabhupada. I've asked before, but they told me that I have to serve in the temple for six months." Then he showed me that his leg was swollen. He said, "I have a big problem with my leg, and I cannot serve in the temple. Can you please ask Prabhupada to accept me as his disciple anyway?" I said, "You can go to Prabhupada and ask him. He sees people every evening. You come tomorrow and be the first person to see him." I told him to bring an offering for Prabhupada. He said, "Yes, yes, I will do." The next day he came with a big plate covered by a cloth. He was the first person there for the darshan, and I went with him. He put the plate on Prabhupada's desk. Prabhupada looked at him and said, "Yes?" Emotionally, he said, "Prabhupada, I want to chant Hare Krishna." Prabhupada smiled and said, "Who is stopping you? Do you know how to chant Hare Krishna?" The man said, "I know the mantra, Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare / Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare." Prabhupada said, "Yes," and he took the man's beads and demonstrated, "You start like this and on every bead you chant the whole mantra, 'Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna . . .' " And Prabhupada went to the next bead and then to the next bead. He chanted a whole round and finally said, "Now you chant." I was so blissful. I thought that this man was initiated.
After traveling for a while I met this man again. He was still chanting, and he had a big picture of Prabhupada in his room. The second time I went to meet him, he had passed away. I heard that they could not take the beads from his hand. In the last two to three weeks of his life he didn't do anything but chant. In the last week he sat in one place, looked at Prabhupada's picture, and chanted. When he left the last thing they heard was his chanting.

Bulls
-----
**Atma Tattva:** The next day Prabhupada walked around the yard and saw the bullock cart. It had a semi-circular banner saying BHAKTIVEDANTA BULLOCK CART TRAVELING SANKIRTAN PARTY. Prabhupada read the sign and said, "Jaya." Then he fed the bulls some grass, patted them on the cheeks, and said, "These bulls are carrying Gaura-Nitai for preaching. They will go back home, back to Godhead. They won't have another life."

70% Passing
-----------
**Jayapataka Swami:** Once Srila Prabhupada was giving a lecture about how we have to be cent per cent Krishna conscious. He was ramming home the point that we have to surrender to Krishna one hundred percent. At the end of the class the devotees were serious. They were looking down thinking, "Who can come up to the standard of complete surrender?" As if he could read their minds, Prabhupada relaxed his mood a little bit and said, "If you can be ninety percent Krishna conscious, then you can also go back to Godhead." He was on a large, high vyasasana, four feet in the air, and had to go down some steps to get off the vyasasana. As he started down he said, "Even if you are eighty percent surrendered, Krishna will still take you." Then he got off the vyasasana and started walking away. His chaddar was flowing behind him, dragging on the ground. He stopped, looked at the devotees and said, "Even if you are seventy percent Krishna conscious, still Krishna will take you." He threw his chaddar over his shoulder and walked off with his head high.

Teaching till death
-------------------
**Govinda:** The night he had a stroke was very traumatic. He was weak and the boys, Satsvarupa, Brahmananda or whoever was there, would take turns sitting him up, opening the Srimad-Bhagavatam and listening as he continued teaching and reading the story of Prahlad Maharaj. Even though he was apparently suffering and at a very critical time, hovering between life and death, he didn't care. He only cared about teaching us. I was deeply affected at that moment and realized a lot of things. I saw how much he loved us. I had never seen such selfless, pure love. And I realized that he wouldn't be with us very long. I made a vow that I would do everything I could to take care of him, help him, and do whatever I could to make things easier for him.
