Devotees Observation
====================
.. _main:

1st meet with Srila Prabhupad
-----------------------------
this is a reference :ref:`main`, ok?
**Hridayananda Goswami:** Srila Prabhupada brought me to Krishna consciousness in 1969. I had seen the devotees on the street in Berkeley, and I'd seen the Hare Krishna festival in the Berkeley Hills. I'd given donations, bought magazines, taken prasadam, and so on, but it was when I heard Prabhupada give a lecture in the International House at the University of California at Berkeley that I really became fixed on Krishna consciousness.
For a sociology/religion class I had to go and observe different religious performances and ceremonies. I had gone to see a so-called swami who seemed like he wasn't saying anything practical or substantial but only telling people how to relax. Just as Prabhupada said that he was reluctant to see his spiritual master because he had seen so many so-called sadhus, so in a little way there is some similarity.
As soon as Prabhupada entered the auditorium, I could see that this person was very different—his gravity, his power, his demeanor. He came in practically like a military commander, not in the sense of a violent person but in the sense of his authority. I could see that here was a person who was filled with authority and yet serene at the same time. The program started, the devotees began to chant, and Prabhupada got off the vyasasana and began dancing and jumping in ecstasy. To see this holy person, so filled with authority, over 70 years old, dancing in ecstasy, was overwhelming.

Diet of SP
----------
**Hari Sauri:** Prabhupada liked to eat fairly simply. His standard fare for breakfast was cut fruits, freshly fried cashew nuts, and, in India, sometimes a bowl of puffed rice and a small sandesh. It was a light breakfast. For lunch, he would have the standard rice, dahl, and chapatis, a wet subji, a dry subji, and maybe a small sweet. If the cook was good, he or she could add to that, but those things had to be there. Prabhupada liked the chapatis to be fresh off the stove. He had a little bell on his table. When you first brought the plate in, there would be one hot chapati on it, and as he finished that one he would ring the bell, and we would immediately puff up another one and run in with it.

Offered with Love
-----------------
**Atma Tattva:** The day we inaugurated the bullock cart party, I was asked to bring some prasadam to offer to Prabhupada and give to all the devotees. So, being a stupid South Indian, I brought coconut and gur. That's what prasadam is in South India. But the coconuts I brought were not soft—they were very hard. And the gur was also not first class. So I had a big plate of pieces of coconut and gur. It was brought in front of Prabhupada. Prabhupada looked at it, "What is this?" Lokanath Swami said, "This is prasadam, because they are starting the bullock cart. . . ." "Oh! Bullock cart, oh," and he took a small piece of coconut and gur, put it in his mouth and was talking about the bullock cart party. As he talked, he moved the gur from one side of his mouth to the other, back and forth, and in that way he kept it until it melted and he could eat it. I thought, "I should have asked Lokanath Swami what prasadam to bring. It should have been sandesh." But even though the prasadam was unfit for him, he accepted it. He showed that, "Because you have given it with love, I have taken it."

First Spanish SB
----------------
**Hridayananda Goswami:** We were desperately trying to get the first Spanish Bhagavatam, which was being printed in America, to Caracas in time to give to Prabhupada while he was there. There were a few glitches, and the book was late. We were disappointed. Finally, by frantic negotiations with the printer, we arranged for the book to be rushed by air-freight to Caracas. It arrived the same morning Prabhupada was leaving. Some of the leaders in Venezuela were desperately trying to get it out of customs, but South America is not the easiest place to do such things.
Meanwhile, Prabhupada went to the airport, and we checked him in. To my great dismay the book hadn't come. Prabhupada went through the immigration check, passport check, and left for the "Passengers Only" waiting lounge. We paid our obeisances, and suddenly the book came. I became inspired to give this first Spanish Bhagavatam to Prabhupada. I went running through the airport. You can't run through the police check in any country, and certainly not in a South American country. But I was inspired. Somehow Krishna arranged everything. I ran right past the passport check. No one said a word to me despite my shaved head and danda. I ran right past all the checkpoints where you have to show this and show that, and no one said a word to me. I ran right into the international waiting lounge, offered obeisances, and Prabhupada had me sit next to him. I gave him the Bhagavatam. Prabhupada was very pleased. He looked at it, and then he wanted to check if it was bonafide. He said, "Can you translate?" "Yes, Prabhupada," I said. He said, "All right," opened it to the preface and said, "Read this in English." I read it in English and Prabhupada saw that it was correct. It was bona fide. He was very happy. Then they called him for his flight. He walked off holding the Bhagavatam.

First Portugese SB
------------------
**Hridayananda Goswami:** We were flying to Los Angeles to see Prabhupada and give him the first Portuguese Bhagavatam, but we arrived at the airport late. The flight had already boarded. We were determined, "How to get this Bhagavatam to Prabhupada?" The airline people said, "I am sorry, the flight is closed." Mahavir grabbed the walkie-talkie from the lady at the counter and said, "Hold that flight." They held the flight, and we ran on.
When Prabhupada arrived the next morning in Los Angeles, we met him. I was eager to give him this Portuguese Bhagavatam because it pleased him so much. It would always please him to receive these books. I couldn't wait until he went to his room. I handed him the Bhagavatam as he got off the vyasasana. Finally, when we went to his room, he looked at me and said, "This is your most important service: printing and distributing books." When he said those words it went deep into my heart. It was a very important moment. I was the GBC of all of Latin American. We had so many projects going on and yet, when I would see Prabhupada, his first question would always be, "So, how is sankirtan? How many books are being distributed?"

Cockroach
---------
**Jayapataka Swami:** One day they found a cockroach in the Montreal temple. Prabhupada took the cockroach in his hand, opened the window, and told the cockroach, "Here, I am giving you the whole world. Now enjoy it." Then he threw the cockroach out the window and closed it.

Kind
----
**Jayapataka Swami:** Prabhupada's presence was so powerful that when you came in his presence, you felt as if you were no longer part of the material world. You felt that you were in some kind of a spiritual, transcendental environment. I didn't know about Vrindavan then, but now we would say that Prabhupada brought Vrindavan with him. We felt the Vrindavan mood whenever we came in Prabhupada's presence. He was carrying Krishna in his heart. I didn't understand that but I felt it. Just being with Srila Prabhupada I could feel myself change. I could see that he was a genuine spiritual master, and that he practiced what he preached. Other people that I visited had books and teachings, but they didn't practice those things.
Seeing this helped build my faith and Prabhupada was very merciful to me. He immediately engaged me in service by having me assist his secretary, either Govinda dasi or Gaurasundar das. When they went shopping during Prabhupada's afternoon nap, I sat outside in case Prabhupada woke up and wanted something. Sometimes Prabhupada would call me in and ask me different things. He told me, "If I get a flower every day it will increase my longevity," and he asked, "Can you bring me a flower; a rose?" I was very excited. My spiritual master was asking me to bring him a rose daily. I said, "Yes."
I went back to the temple and told the temple president that I was going to get a rose for Srila Prabhupada. He said, "What are you doing? You're in maya. You can't do that." I said, "Why? Prabhupada told me to get him a rose." I thought, "I do everything else you say, but Prabhupada asked me to bring him a rose and I am going to bring him a rose." I phoned a florist and was going to go pick up a rose. The temple president got angry and said I couldn't do that, that I should do something else. So I became a little angry because he was yelling at me. I walked off with the vibrations ringing in my ear, and I came to a dead end. Nearby there was a florist shop. I walked in and the salesperson said, "I've been waiting for you. Here is the rose." It was the shop that I had called, but I had forgotten the address. I offered Prabhupada the rose, and he said, "Thank you very much."

Appreciative
------------
**Jayapataka Swami:** A devotee told me, "You should ask a good question every time Prabhupada gives class." So at the end of every class I would always ask a question about something that related to the class. Once I asked about Radharani. Prabhupada said, "Who are you to ask about Radharani?" I asked questions every day, and Prabhupada would respond in a different way every day.
At that time we worked outside to maintain the Montreal temple. There was no other source of income. So I could only attend the morning class and had to miss the evening class. But the next day I would listen to the tape of the evening class. Once I was listening to the tape, and at the end of class Prabhupada asked if anyone had any questions. Nobody had any, and he said, "That Jay, he has nice questions." Hearing that was a big thing for me because normally Prabhupada didn't praise disciples to their face. He was very grave with his disciples. But sometimes he would comment to other devotees, and you'd hear it through the grapevine. That time I heard it on the tape.

Temples like churches
---------------------
**Badrinarayana:** An Indian professor said that it was all one. Prabhupada explained that it is not all one, that there are differences. Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton ball, cotton shirt. . . ." Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton is . . ." Prabhupada said it three or four times. He was sitting behind a low table, and the man was sitting on the other side. Prabhupada reached over, grabbed the man by the shirt, shook him and said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man got it. He didn't just get it to be polite, but Prabhupada, while still friendly, managed to shake through his buffalo brain. The man understood that there was a difference between a cotton ball and a cotton shirt. However, after the man left, Prabhupada pointed out, "This is the special sanction of old men and little children. They can go anywhere, and they can say anything. You cannot imitate."


Purity of Srila Prabhupad
-------------------------
**Badrinarayana:** Beyond the park there were museums and a quiet, forested area. I had walked in the park many times, but I had never seen this area. When Prabhupada walked there, deer came on both sides of the walkway and walked with us. They'd run twenty yards ahead and then wait. Prabhupada would catch up, and then they'd run ahead and wait again. Twice when Srila Prabhupada was there they followed us all the way down and all the way up. One of the devotees quoted the "atmarama" verse; that even dull animals can appreciate a Krishna conscious person. We were thinking, "What is the status of Srila Prabhupada? Is he like Chaitanya Mahaprabhu?" We weren't sahajiya-like, but we saw that the deer sensed Prabhupada's purity.

Healthy? groceries?
-------------------
**Jayapataka Swami:** In Montreal we would walk to McGill University or walk around the block, and Prabhupada would make observations. Once he said that if you see a big, healthy person, you can ask him where he does his grocery shopping because, since he's healthy, he must have a good source. It happened that a taxi drove up and the taxi driver was very big. Prabhupada said, "Yes, ask him where he does his shopping." Prabhupada was spontaneous in that way. A devotee asked the taxi driver where he did his shopping, and the taxi driver was bewildered. Why would someone ask him such a question?





