Mayawad
=======

Expert defeater
---------------
**Hari Sauri:** On the Disappearance Day of Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati we were in Bombay, and in the afternoon a lady came for darshan. She was a follower of a well-known Mayavadi guru. During the conversation there was some discussion on the philosophy of the Bhagavad-gita, and she espoused her guru's interpretation of Krishna's words. In Sanskrit the word "Krishna" means "dark." So this so-called guru had written that Krishna means dark. Dark means unknown, and so the absolute is the unknowable, unmanifested supreme. Prabhupada quickly fired back, "Well, if dark means unknown, and if Krishna is unknowable, then he does not know Krishna. So why is he commenting on Krishna's words, the Bhagavad-gita?" He said, "Krishna says that His devotee can know Him. Because this man is not a devotee, he cannot know Krishna. Only devotees can comment on Bhagavad-gita."
Prabhupada was very expert. He could pick up the basis of anybody's argument immediately. In India there were always a lot of different interpretations, false ideas, and misconstruing of Bhagavad-gita. Prabhupada was expert at keeping a person focused on Krishna, the Supreme Personality of Godhead.

**Badrinarayana:** An Indian professor said that it was all one. Prabhupada explained that it is not all one, that there are differences. Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton ball, cotton shirt. . . ." Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton is . . ." Prabhupada said it three or four times. He was sitting behind a low table, and the man was sitting on the other side. Prabhupada reached over, grabbed the man by the shirt, shook him and said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man got it. He didn't just get it to be polite, but Prabhupada, while still friendly, managed to shake through his buffalo brain. The man understood that there was a difference between a cotton ball and a cotton shirt. However, after the man left, Prabhupada pointed out, "This is the special sanction of old men and little children. They can go anywhere, and they can say anything. You cannot imitate."
