Instructions by SP
==================

Dont give flyers freely
-----------------------
**Govinda:** Once in Los Angeles the Jehovah's Witnesses came to visit us and Prabhupada said, "Let them in." I let them in, and they preached their philosophy. Apparently they believe that within this body you become liberated and that this body is eternal. Prabhupada kept asking them, "With this body?" He was incredulous that they could believe that this body was eternal. But he was polite and nice with them. He didn't preach to them, he just wanted know what they were teaching. They gave him some literature, and as they left he had me give them a little brochure about chanting Hare Krishna. It had a drawing of the universal form that I had made and a picture of Lord Vishnu with all His arms. The next morning when he went on his walk, he saw that this brochure had been thrown on the street and run over by a car. He was disturbed that the Lord's picture had been run over. He said, "We should not give out such things freely."

First instruction to Brahmananda
--------------------------------
**Brahmananda:** I went up to the Swami's apartment and knocked on the door. The Swami opened the door. "Yes?" he said. I said, "I would like to speak with you." "Oh, yes. Come in." We went together into the sitting room. Prabhupada sat down behind a little metal box, and we started talking. It was very quaint. He asked me my name. I told him, "Bruce." Then Prabhupada told me that in India during the Raj period there was a "Lord Bruce." I started telling the Swami about myself, and I found myself saying, "I want to become your full time student." I had just finished taking a special training course for teaching, and I was employed by The New York City Board Of Education to teach remedial reading, a special program for culturally deprived children in the ghettos. I told the Swami, "I have just finished my training." My assignment was beginning the next day. I said, "I have a job beginning tomorrow, but I just want to be your student." Prabhupada said, "That's fine, but you have a job." I said, "Yes." He said, "What is the salary?" Prabhupada explained Bhagavad-gita to me in a nutshell. He explained how Krishna told Arjuna to do his duty, to do devotional service, to work for Him, but not to partake in the fruits of the activity. He explained how one should give all the fruits of one's activity to Krishna. Then Prabhupada gave me a practical instruction. It was my first instruction. He said, "You can be my student, and you can also do your job. You can give the fruits of your job to Krishna." So my first service was to work and give my salary to Prabhupada.
