Mayawad
=======

Expert defeater
---------------
**Hari Sauri:** On the Disappearance Day of Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati we were in Bombay, and in the afternoon a lady came for darshan. She was a follower of a well-known Mayavadi guru. During the conversation there was some discussion on the philosophy of the Bhagavad-gita, and she espoused her guru's interpretation of Krishna's words. In Sanskrit the word "Krishna" means "dark." So this so-called guru had written that Krishna means dark. Dark means unknown, and so the absolute is the unknowable, unmanifested supreme. Prabhupada quickly fired back, "Well, if dark means unknown, and if Krishna is unknowable, then he does not know Krishna. So why is he commenting on Krishna's words, the Bhagavad-gita?" He said, "Krishna says that His devotee can know Him. Because this man is not a devotee, he cannot know Krishna. Only devotees can comment on Bhagavad-gita."
Prabhupada was very expert. He could pick up the basis of anybody's argument immediately. In India there were always a lot of different interpretations, false ideas, and misconstruing of Bhagavad-gita. Prabhupada was expert at keeping a person focused on Krishna, the Supreme Personality of Godhead.

Heavy
-----
**Badrinarayana:** An Indian professor said that it was all one. Prabhupada explained that it is not all one, that there are differences. Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton ball, cotton shirt. . . ." Prabhupada said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man said, "Ah, cotton is . . ." Prabhupada said it three or four times. He was sitting behind a low table, and the man was sitting on the other side. Prabhupada reached over, grabbed the man by the shirt, shook him and said, "If I say cotton ball or cotton shirt, is there a difference?" The man got it. He didn't just get it to be polite, but Prabhupada, while still friendly, managed to shake through his buffalo brain. The man understood that there was a difference between a cotton ball and a cotton shirt. However, after the man left, Prabhupada pointed out, "This is the special sanction of old men and little children. They can go anywhere, and they can say anything. You cannot imitate."

Just do kirtan
--------------
**Jayapataka Swami:** We were invited to a Bhagavad-gita conference in Maharastra sponsored by Vinoda Bhave, a disciple of Gandhiji. Vinoda Bhave was one of the most famous saints in the Gandhi tradition, and big political leaders used to meet with him. One of his last campaigns was for cow protection. Somehow he was holding a big conference on the Bhagavad-gita, and he invited Prabhupada and many other sadhus to come. I was there for that conference. Vinoda Bhave's many women disciples chanted chapters of the Bhagavad-gita and Vinoda Bhave spoke. Then Prabhupada had us, his men and women disciples from all over the world, chant Hare Krishna in a big kirtan. Everybody got into the kirtan, laughing and clapping, and then Prabhupada delivered a very nice lecture. A Mayavadi sannyasi was upset at Prabhupada's kirtan and the positive effect it had on the crowd. Normally this Mayavadi would have just given a Bhagavad-gita class, but now he wanted to do a kirtan also. He told the people, "You should all chant with me. We will have a kirtan." It seemed as if he made up some unusual mantra right on the spot. Nobody was inspired by it. In the middle Prabhupada said to the devotees, "Chant Hare Krishna again," and the devotees jumped up with kartals and mridanga and started chanting. Everyone was relieved because the Mayavadi's chanting was so strange.

Humbled
-------
**Badrinarayana:** There was a professor from Cal Tech who had studied Vedanta and who appreciated what he saw as Prabhupada's simplistic presentation, appropriate for the neophytes in the West. This professor thought that as one went further into Vedanta, one understood how the form becomes formless, and he quoted Sanskrit slokas to support his viewpoint. Prabhupada didn't even look at him. Prabhupada looked at the Deities of Radha and Krishna and chanted Hare Krishna Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna Hare Hare . . . while the professor went on speaking. Finally the professor ran out of steam. Prabhupada said, "Are you finished?" and then Prabhupada started quoting from the Puranas, the Vedas, the Vedanta Sutra, the Upanisads, the Samhitas, as if he were hammering a nail into the ground. For this man it was like body blows. Everyone was sitting on a big rug, but this man was standing. As Prabhupada spoke in his lionlike way the professor stooped a little bit, then he was on his knees, then he could have melted into the floor. Prabhupada, with his noble bearing and his hand in his bead bag, made point after point. It came to a crescendo. Prabhupada finished and said, "Do you have any further questions?" The professor said, "Swami, can we have kirtan?" His complaint had been that we just chanted and danced like sentimentalists. The devotees said "Jaya!" The professor had seen the light, so to speak.